
Q9. What is the difference between double and float variables in Java?
Ans: In java, float takes 4 bytes in memory while Double takes 8 bytes in memory. Float is single
precision floating point decimal number while Double is double precision decimal number.

Q10. What is Final Keyword in Java? Give an example.
Ans: In java, a constant is declared using the keyword Final. Value can be assigned only once and
after assignment, value of a constant can’t be changed.
In below example, a constant with the name const_val is declared and assigned avalue:
Private Final int const_val=100
When a method is declared as final,it can NOT be overridden by the subclasses.This method are
faster than any other method,because they are resolved at complied time.
When a class is declares as final,it cannot be subclassed. Example String,Integer and other wrapper
classes.

Q11. What is ternary operator? Give an example.
Ans: Ternary operator , also called conditional operator is used to decide which value to assign to a
variable based on a Boolean value evaluation. It's denoted as ?
In the below example, if rank is 1, status is assigned a value of "Done" else "Pending".

public class conditionTest {
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        String status;
        int rank = 3;
        status = (rank == 1) ? "Done" : "Pending";
        System.out.println(status);
    }
}

Q12: How can you generate random numbers in Java?
Ans:
• Using Math.random() you can generate random numbers in the range greater than or equal
to 0.1 and less than 1.0
• Using Random class in package java.util

Q13. What is default switch case? Give example.
Ans: In a switch statement, default case is executed when no other switch condition matches.
Default case is an optional case .
It can be declared only once all other switch cases have been coded.
In the below example, when score is not 1 or 2, default case is used.

public class switchExample {
    int score=4;
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        switch (score) {
            case 1:
                system.out.println("Score is 1");
                break;
            case 2:
                system.out.println("Score is 2");
                break;
            default:
                system.out.println("Default Case");
        }
    }
}


Q14. What's the base class in Java from which all classes are derived?
Ans: java.lang.object

Q15. Can main() method in Java can return any data?
Ans: In java, main() method can’t return any data and hence, it’s always declared with a void
return type.

Q16. What are Java Packages? What's the significance of packages?
Ans: In Java, package is a collection of classes and interfaces which are bundled together as they
are related to each other. Use of packages helps developers to modularize the code and group the
code for proper re-use. Once code has been packaged in Packages, it can be imported in other
classes and used.

Q17. Can we declare a class as Abstract without having any abstract method?
Ans: Yes we can create an abstract class by using abstract keyword before class name even if it
doesn't have any abstract method. However, if a class has even one abstract method, it must be
declared as abstract otherwise it will give an error.

Q18. What’s the difference between an Abstract Class and Interface in Java?
Ans: The primary difference between an abstract class and interface is that an interface can only
possess declaration of public static methods with no concrete implementation while an abstract
class can have members with any access specifiers (public, private etc) with or without concrete
implementation.
Another key difference in the use of abstract classes and interfaces is that a class which
implements an interface must implement all the methods of the interface while a class which
inherits from an abstract class doesn’t require implementation of all the methods of its super
class.