// 28 - 44

Q28. Can a class have multiple constructors?
Ans: Yes, a class can have multiple constructors with different parameters. Which constructor gets
used for object creation depends on the arguments passed while creating the objects.

Q29. Can we override static methods of a class?
Ans: We cannot override static methods. Static methods belong to a class and not to individual
objects and are resolved at the time of compilation (not at runtime).Even if we try to override
static method,we will not get an complitaion error,nor the impact of overriding when running the
code.

Q30. In the below example, what will be the output?
public class superclass {
    public void displayResult() {
        system.out.println("Printing from superclass");
    }
}
public class subclass extends superclass {
    public void displayResult() {
        system.out.println("Displaying from subClass");
        super.displayResult();
    }
    public static void main(String args[]) {
        subclass obj=new subclass();
        obj.displayResult();
    }
}
Ans: Output will be:
Displaying from subclass
Displaying from superclass

Q31. Is String a data type in java?
Ans: String is not a primitive data type in java. When a string is created in java, it's actually an
object of Java.Lang.String class that gets created. After creation of this string object, all built-in
methods of String class can be used on the string object.

Q32. In the below example, how many String Objects are created?
String s1="I am Java Expert";
String s2="I am C Expert";
String s3="I am Java Expert";
Ans: In the above example, two objects of Java.Lang.String class are created. s1 and s3 are
references to same object.

Q33. Why Strings in Java are called as Immutable?
Ans: In java, string objects are called immutable as once value has been assigned to a string, it
can't be changed and if changed, a new object is created.
In below example, reference str refers to a string object having value "Value one".
String str="Value One";
When a new value is assigned to it, a new String object gets created and the reference is moved to
the new object.
str="New Value";

Q34. What's the difference between an array and Vector?
Ans: An array groups data of same primitive type and is static in nature while vectors are dynamic
in nature and can hold data of different data types.

Q35. What is multi-threading?
Ans: Multi threading is a programming concept to run multiple tasks in a concurrent manner
within a single program. Threads share same process stack and running in parallel. It helps in
performance improvement of any program.

Q36. Why Runnable Interface is used in Java?
Ans: Runnable interface is used in java for implementing multi threaded applications.
Java.Lang.Runnable interface is implemented by a class to support multi threading.

Q37. What are the two ways of implementing multi-threading in Java?
Ans: Multi threaded applications can be developed in Java by using any of the following two
methodologies:
1. By using Java.Lang.Runnable Interface. Classes implement this interface to enable multi
threading. There is a Run() method in this interface which is implemented.
2. By writing a class that extend Java.Lang.Thread class.

Q38. When a lot of changes are required in data, which one should be a preference to be used?
String or StringBuffer?
Ans: Since StringBuffers are dynamic in nature and we can change the values of StringBuffer
objects unlike String which is immutable, it's always a good choice to use StringBuffer when data is
being changed too much. If we use String in such a case, for every data change a new String object
will be created which will be an extra overhead.

Q39. What's the purpose of using Break in each case of Switch Statement?
Ans: Break is used after each case (except the last one) in a switch so that code breaks after the
valid case and doesn't flow in the proceeding cases too.
If break isn't used after each case, all cases after the valid case also get executed resulting in
wrong results.

Q40. How garbage collection is done in Java?
Ans: In java, when an object is not referenced any more, garbage collection takes place and the
object is destroyed automatically. For automatic garbage collection java calls either System.gc()
method or Runtime.gc() method.

Q41. How we can execute any code even before main method?
Ans: If we want to execute any statements before even creation of objects at load time of class,
we can use a static block of code in the class. Any statements inside this static block of code will
get executed once at the time of loading the class even before creation of objects in the main
method.

Q42. Can a class be a super class and a sub-class at the same time? Give example.
Ans: If there is a hierarchy of inheritance used, a class can be a super class for another class and a
sub-class for another one at the same time.
In the example below, continent class is sub-class of world class and it's super class of country
class.
public class world {
..........
}
public class continenet extends world {
............
}
public class country extends continent {
......................
}

Q43. How objects of a class are created if no constructor is defined in the class?
Ans: Even if no explicit constructor is defined in a java class, objects get created successfully as a
default constructor is implicitly used for object creation. This constructor has no parameters.

Q44. In multi-threading how can we ensure that a resource isn't used by multiple threads
simultaneously?
Ans: In multi-threading, access to the resources which are shared among multiple threads can be
controlled by using the concept of synchronization. Using synchronized keyword, we can ensure
that only one thread can use shared resource at a time and others can get control of the resource
only once it has become free from the other one using it.